>> Kevin Powell: We've talked
a lot about custom properties and
set up a lot of custom properties.
One thing is, especially right now,
we have our primitives and
then we have the semantic ones,
and do we really need both?
We'll look a bit about
the benefits of that.
Another thing I'm very partial for doing
is using locally scoped custom properties
as well, and with wrappers is one
of the places I do like using them.
With the wrapper, the benefits aren't
necessarily as big as within other areas.
But I like doing this just because
when you're modifying things or
changing things,
I find it's a lot easier for
people when they're coming through the
code to know exactly what they're doing.
And I see locally scoped custom properties
a lot like Levers that you're opening up
within the code for
somebody to be able to come in and change.
You're saying, sort of anything
that has that locally scoped
custom property is something within this
thing that is allowed to be tweaked, and
those other things should be left alone.
So in this example,
we could come here and say,
wrapper max width is 1130, and
then in the modifier down here,
I would just modify that custom property,
so wrapper max width.
And then, of course, this here would
have to get changed to the variable,
var(--wrapper--max-width, like that.
You could also not declare
the custom property here and
put the fallback value here.
There are times when that
can be beneficial, and
I would say it's a good thing to do.
We'll see examples of that
a little bit later, but
I'm kind of partial to doing it this way.
And so then for the narrow one,
we could take the same
approach, data--width is equal to narrow.
And here we can say the wrapper-max-width,
I think it's 720 off the top of my head.
But you can double-check that in
the figma file just to see what
the size is actually are.
I'm also getting an error right now, and
I noticed when I saved my code wasn't
formatting, and I can see prettier
highlighting in red right
now at the bottom,
that means I did something wrong [LAUGH].
It could be a number of different things,
sometimes it's a missing semi colon.
In this case, layout, you can see
the bracket has changed to red here.
VS code again, default highlights brackets
so that's opened, then it should be close,
close, close.
I think I'm missing a closing
bracket here, save, and there we go.
The prettier is no longer red, and
I'm just trying to make sure
that this opening yellow one has
a corresponding closing yellow one before
I get to my next layer right there.
So if ever you are using Prettier, it's
been working the entire time and you do
save something and the formatting doesn't
happen, the same would be in the HTML.
If you have a missing or an extra
closing div or something like that,
you'll notice it doesn't work.
If you click on Prettier here too,
it will open up in this bottom area, and
this is all my settings of it,
but if there's an error,
it actually tells you what the error is,
usually in here.
Or gives you an idea of what the problem
might be, so I can help you out as well.
>> Kevin Powell: With
those wrappers in place,
I'll do this with you
guys at the same time.
I'm just gonna go through and use all the
wrappers in the places I need them, and
I am gonna make a change.
I was gonna save this to when we styled
the hero, we're gonna get there in a bit.
But because the hero area does need
like this text at the top is wider, and
then this text down here is narrower.
It just means the easiest way to do that,
in my mind,
is to actually close this one here and
then open up a new div with
a class equals wrapper,
and the data width is equal to narrow.
For the data attribute things, I'll just
let you know I got that from CUBE CSS,
which was by Andy Bell,
I mentioned him for the reset as well.
And in the first lesson I talk about
the data attributes in the course website,
there is a link that goes to the CUBE CSS,
which is a naming convention that he uses.
That's where I got the data
attribute thing from,
and I just fell in love with it and
continued using it.
But he goes into much more detail and
use cases.
But again, we'll see a few of
those as we go through here.
So in doing that, I should be able to see.
What we'll do is actually,
I wanna see my project at full screen,
so I'm just gonna switch
to my other desktop.
So, I can see we don't have center,
so looks a bit funky.
But I can see this is fullscreen, and
then this part down here is narrower, so
I know it's working.
The next part, the wrapper is
completely fine for that area,
I just need it to be the normal width.
This next one is narrower,
so I just have to find it.
There's the wrapper data
width is equal to narrow.
I keep putting them outside
of my quotation marks,
then the two columns, both of those
have the data width is equal to wide.
And again, please don't feel you have to
use the data attributes if you really
don't like them, but I do encourage
trying different things to see how they
come together for you on any given
project, and to see if you like it or not.
So this looks good, our navigation,
actually, I think needs a wide one.
There we can see it's
all within our wrapper.
Here we're in a wrapper that's wider, so
the image is sticking off
to the side of it more.
We have the wide one there, and then the
little happy foraging down at the bottom,
which I don't think we need a wrapper for
necessarily.
So I'm just gonna come all
the way back up to the very top,
where I have the wrapper here and, whoops,
data-width = wide there, cuz,
again, if we look at our design,
the navigation does have the wide
wrapper on it, right there.
>> Kevin Powell: Any thoughts about
data attributes versus modifier classes?
I'm always curious when everyone-
>> Speaker 2: Just mentioning that
Andy Bell and Hayden's book, Relearn,
every layout is a great resource for
responsive design focused on CSS and HTML.
>> Kevin Powell: Yes, every layout is
fantastic at highly recommend it to
people.
>> Kevin Powell: I try not to
mention Andy too much, but
I've learned a lot of CSS through him,
so [LAUGH] it sneaks in quite a bit.
And Hayden has some really
good resources too.
Actually, [LAUGH] just a bit of
talking about landmark regions,
we're gonna dive into those now.
Hayden has a series on his,
so it's Hayden Pickering.
He has a series on his blog talking
in depth on what the semantics of
each one means, cuz semantics are hard and
it's not always easy to know what each
one means, so you can check those out.
He does have a bit of a crude
sense of humor to put it politely.
So you have to, if you like it, if you
like Monty Python and don't mind some
vulgar words, you'll like his blog posts,
otherwise you might not, but yeah.
>> Speaker 2: One other kind of thought or
question.
Someone in the chat says, regarding
data attributes, I'm wondering how or
if there's a way they can be enumerated.
For example,
wide can be easily misspelled,
can we make it more
declarative in some way?
>> Kevin Powell: I don't know if
there's a difference between that and
modifier classes, it's just what it is I
think when we're authoring these things.
But yeah, you could, I mean, yeah,
I'm trying to think of an alternative,
but I think it is what it is a little bit.